1. Define the requirements:
   - What information do you want to display in the app (e.g. current weather, forecast, location, etc.)?
   - Which weather API will you be using to retrieve the weather data?

2. Set up the project structure:
   - Create separate modules for different functionalities (e.g. API requests, data parsing, user interface).
   - Use a main script to bring everything together.

3. Retrieve weather data from the API:
   - Make API requests to get the weather data based on the user's input (e.g. location).
   - Parse the JSON response to extract the necessary information (e.g. temperature, humidity, wind speed).

4. Display the weather data to the user:
   - Create a simple user interface using a GUI library like Tkinter or PyQt.
   - Display the weather information in a visually appealing way (e.g. using icons, colors).

5. Handle errors and edge cases:
   - Make sure to handle cases where the API request fails or there is no data available for the user's location.
   - Provide helpful error messages to the user.

6. Test the app:
   - Test the app thoroughly to ensure that it works as expected.
   - Consider edge cases such as invalid input or network connection issues.

Remember to keep the code modular and well-organized, and to follow best practices such as error handling and testing. This will help you produce a reliable and maintainable weather forecast app. Good luck with your project!


--


1. Define the requirements:
- What specific weather information do I want the app to display to users?  
    wrote them in requ.txt

- How often do I want the weather data to be updated in the app?  
    its allways updated

- Do I want the app to provide weather data for a single location or allow users to input different locations?  
    users can choose which city(capital) they want

- Are there any specific features or functionalities I want to include in the app, such as notifications for severe weather alerts?  
    not yet it isnt necessary


2. Set up the project structure:
- What are the key functionalities that the app will need (API requests, data parsing, user interface)?
    API requests
    handling error
    data parsing if needed
    user interface is optional, but this will make the projcet much better

- How can I organize my code to make it easier to maintain and expand in the future?
    keeping everything clean and flexible

- Are there any specific libraries or frameworks I should consider using to streamline development (e.g. requests for API calls, Tkinter for GUI)?
    listed requ.txt


3. Retrieve weather data from the API:
- Which weather API will be best suited for the app's requirements (e.g. OpenWeatherMap, Weatherstack, WeatherAPI)?
    its already done

- How can I ensure that the API requests are efficient and handle potential errors or issues?
    look at their uptime and service plans (they are ok)

- How should I structure the API requests to fetch the specific weather data needed for the app?
    easy, ask user what they want and give it to them


4. Display the weather data to the user:
- What elements of the weather information should be highlighted or emphasized in the user interface?
    in requ.txt file

- How can I design the user interface to be intuitive and user-friendly for all types of users?
    i've done several html, css projects so im ok with it
    yt, google, chatgpt

- What visual elements (icons, colors, fonts) can I incorporate to enhance the user experience?
    weather icons, some pictures about weather and this stuff


5. Handle errors and edge cases:
- What potential errors or issues could arise when retrieving weather data from the API?
    wrong user inputs
    offline servers (wont happend that easy)

- How can I provide informative and helpful error messages to guide users in case of issues?
    messages in interface/terminal

- Are there any specific scenarios (such as no data available for a location) that need to be accounted for in the app?
    no


6. Test the app:
- What are the important test cases that need to be considered to ensure the app functions correctly?

- How can I simulate different scenarios (such as invalid input, network connection failure) to test the app's resilience?

- Are there any specific tools or techniques that can be used to automate testing and ensure comprehensive coverage of the app's functionality?



----Error handling and testing

Error handling and testing are both essential components of software development 
that help ensure the reliability and quality of a software application.


Error handling is the process of identifying, capturing, and responding to errors that occur during the execution of a program. 
Errors can be caused by a variety of factors, such as invalid user input, hardware failures, or unexpected system behavior. 
By implementing robust error handling mechanisms, developers can prevent the application from crashing 
and provide users with informative error messages to help them understand and recover from the error.


There are different ways to handle errors in a program, 
including using try-catch blocks, checking for specific error conditions, 
and logging error messages for later analysis. Error handling should be an integral part of software development, 
as it helps improve the overall reliability and stability of the application.


Testing, on the other hand, is the process of verifying that 
a software application behaves as expected and meets its requirements. 
Testing is typically divided into two main categories: manual testing and automated testing. 

Manual testing involves testing the application manually by executing test cases 
and checking the results against expected outcomes. 

Automated testing uses specialized tools and scripts to automate the testing process 
and can help improve efficiency and consistency in testing.


There are different types of testing that can be performed during the software development lifecycle, 
including unit testing, integration testing, system testing, and acceptance testing. 
Each type of testing focuses on different aspects of the software application and helps identify bugs and issues before the application is released to users.


Overall, error handling and testing are crucial aspects of software development 
that help ensure the reliability, quality, and performance of a software application. 
By implementing robust error handling mechanisms and conducting thorough testing, 
developers can build more robust and reliable software applications that meet the needs of users.


-- errors

There are several ways to handle errors in Python:

Use try/except blocks: You can wrap the code that might raise an error in a try block and specify the type of error you want to catch in an except block.
 
try:
    # code that might raise an error
except Exception as e:
    # handle the error
Use raise statement: You can raise your own custom exceptions to indicate that an error has occurred.
 
if something_went_wrong:
    raise Exception("An error occurred")
Use finally block: You can use the finally block to execute code after the try block, regardless of whether an error occurred or not.
 
try:
    # code that might raise an error
except Exception as e:
    # handle the error
finally:
    # code that will always be executed
Use assert statement: You can use the assert statement to check conditions that must be true and raise an AssertionError if they are not.
 
x = 10
assert x < 5, "x should be less than 5"
Use logging module: You can use the logging module to log errors and other messages to a file or console.
 
import logging

try:
    # code that might raise an error
except Exception as e:
    logging.error("An error occurred: %s", e)
These are some common ways to handle errors in Python, but there are many more advanced techniques and libraries available for error handling. It's important to choose the right approach based on the specific requirements of your application.

